
= Functions =

 This section intends to give the user an overview about all the functionalities of the Moth
processor, showing some actions like initialization, functions to work on visual elements, and
finishing the processor.

== General Functions ==

 The Moth Processor is "attached" on the use of the 
[Allegro library https://www.allegro.cc], thus is needed to initialize this library before
starting the processor. With that, we can call the processor initialization function that
will return a pthread_id as identifier to monitor and halt the processor. The initialization
function prototype would be:

```
moth_initialize(screen_height, screen_width, frame_rate)
```

 Both the screen size and frame rate (or Frames Per Second - FPS) must be defined at the
initialization. The frame rate will be divided by 1 and we will have the update interval time,
used by the "screen update" thread as illustrated in latter sections.


 To finalize the Moth Processor, is possible to use the finalize function, that will free the
processor allocated resources and join the active threads. The function prototype is shown below.

```
moth_finalize(void)
```

 **WARNING**: Do not finish Allegro library before the Moth Processor, because it will be
using resources from the liballegro.

 Another functions of general use are listed below.

: ``screen_freeze(void)``

 Will stop the screen updating until started again.

: ``screen_start(void)``

 Will start the screen updating. Will be needed only if the ``screen_freeze`` function is used,
because the Moth Processor is initialized in the active (updating) status.

: ``processor_status copy_processor_status(void)``

 Return all the data contained in the processor at the request moment. There is possibility that
if something is updated in the processor, the same thing will change in the returned data too
(some allocated data that is accessed by referece, for example). If you halt the processor
correctly, there is no need to worry about if you have called this function. Better, you need to
worry if you are using something from this function.

: ``save_processor_status(processor_status), file_name``

 Can save all the content from a ``processor_status`` datatype in the file specified by file_name.
The data can be loaded with the next function.

: ``load_processor_status(file_name)``

 Will load into the processor the ``processor_status`` data from the file specified by file_name.
This operation will free all the current content contained by the processor.


== Working on Visual Elements ==

The Visual Elements are the processor subject of work. Nevertheless, the user does not have
directly access to it, only receiving a //key// to access and interact over the element. Internally
the processor will take care of it.

Another element that is shaped by the processor is the **viewpoints** data types. This types contain
some data that is used by the visual elements, but it is also intended to be something abstract to
the user. More about this element will be talk latter.

This section presents some basic functions that permits interation with visual elements in the Moth
Processor. Advanced and more specific functions will be shown latter.

=== Create ===

As seen in previous sections, the visual elements has few fields that the user have to know about,
and other few that is used internally. The first must be specified at the elements creation
and the most part can be changed after it.

 The basic parameters that is needed to create a visual element is the following:

- Horizontal (x) and vertical (y) positioning of the element in the screen;

- The type of the element;

- The **viewpoints** data type, previously filled by another function that works with that (seen 
latter in this section);

- The visibility (display) of the element. With this parameter the user can hide or show the element
at any moment of the game without removing it.


 With these elements, we can ilustrate a creation function prototype:

```
visual_key create_visual_element(x, y, type, viewpoints, visible);
```

The creation function will return a visual element key to latter access to the element.


=== Remove ===

 When removing a visual element all his data will be lost. To remove an element is needed his
visual key received at element creation. The prototype of the remove element function is as
follow.

```
void remove_visual_element(key);
```


=== Update ===

 Updating a visual element probably will be the most frequently action requested to the Moth
Processor. Thus, there is a set of specific updating functions intended to be less complex
when changing an element attribute. The update function are:

: ``update_visual_element_pos(x, y)``

Used to change the position of the element in the screen.

: ``update_visual_element_type(type)``

Change the type of the element. If the element was created as //static//, changing him to dynamic
will take no effect unless you change the //update interval// attribute from the ``viewpos``.

: ``update_visual_element_view(index)``

Change the //view// of the element in the screen.

: ``update_visual_element_interval(time)``

Alter or add a update interval that will be used to switch between views in dynamic visual 
elements.

: ``update_element_viewpos(viewpos)``

Should permits that the visual element receive a new ``viewpos`` datatype. **OBS.:** Will not be
implemented while there is no need of it. (this warning means that the function was not implemented
yet =)


=== Visibility ===

 If there is need to temporarily stop displaying some element, the "hide element" function
can be used. The function offers access to the element "display" attribute. Set this parameter
to //false// when there is need to hide the element, and set to //true// to return the display of
the element.

```
void display_visual_element(bool)
```

=== Layers Facility ===

 When building some 2D games is needed to draw the images on the screen in an arbitrary order. The
Moth Processor keep two priority lists of elements that, when filled, will be drawn into the screen
independently of the order of the creation of the elements.

 The is two elements list keep by the processor, the //under layer//and the //over layer//. The 
//under layer// can be used to drawn floors, landscapes, bases of objects, etc. The //over layer//
can be used to draw roofs, weater, flying elements, area effects as fog, and many others. Each
layer list has 5 positions to be filled with the referece of visual elements that was already
inserted in the processor.

 The layer's list can be access through the following functions prototypes.

: ``set_under_layer_element(layer_priority, key)``
: ``set_over_layer_element(layer_priority, key)``

Will add the visual element pointed by ``key`` into the layer list. Read the about the datatype
layer priority in the "Type Definitions" from "Basic Data" section. **OBS.:** If the requested
priority is already occuped, it will be free and the new key added.

: ``unset_under_layer_element(layer_priority)``
: ``unset_over_layer_element(layer_priority)``

Clear the key in the position pointed by ``layer_priority`` from layer's list.


The under and over layers list are used by the processor do draw de first elements (under layer),
starting with the element of higher priority to the element with less priority. The last elements
will be drawn with the same characteristics. The element with higher priority will be drawn into
screen first, and the element with less priority will be the last element drawn into the screen.

**OBS.:** If an element that is in one of the layer's list is removed, his reference will be
automatically removed too.


