Collision Detection System


= Idealization =

== Types ==
There are three objects that compound the collision detection system, a ``domain``, an ``area`` and
the ``element``, being an element can be in one o more areas, and a domain is composed by a fixed
number of areas. The following sections describes in detail these interactions, the objects
attributes and how is the collision detection processing.

=== Collision Element ===

Collision Element is the base data type that an object must have to be in the collision detection
process. Is the type that the processing will work it and have the following attributes:

- Vertices list - To be more accurate, this attribute is a list vertices that compound a
rectangle, so, the type of variable that is inside of the list are rectangle coordinates;

- Offset - This is a reference of the element in the map. It will be used to find the real position
of the element when calculating the Collision Areas that he is into;

- Collision Area list - This is a list of the collision areas that the object is in. This
information will be used to erase the collision element references when the object cease to exist;

- Type - Informs if the element is static and will not move around by his own will, or if it is
dynamic, that will be changing his position in short intervals of time.

- Collision Domain - A reference to the Collision Domain that the element is into. Will be used when
the element needs to know if he can make move to a given direction*****;


[*****] Doing this creeps me out. Maintaing a reference for the entity that holds your reference.
But looks like necessary. The element needs a way to know where are the other elements. This could
be done adding the Collision Domain by the higher type (the element that inherance the base-classe).
But i think that would be better if the "system" avoid this overhead to the user and can do by
itself).

Then, what to do with this? With rectangles we can define the collision surface of an element. With
one rectangle we can define a collision surface with 2 different sizes, width and height; with more
rectangles we can give the element a more complex collision surface*****.

The following figure try to describe the application of vertices from rectangles:

// image here //
**TODO:** Adicionar imagem com 1, 2 e 3 retangulos

And with the type we can define what type of treatment the element will receive to detect if it is
colliding with something.

[*****] I believe that is perfectly possible to define another geometric forms, and add the logic to
detect collision between them, but for simplicity sake and for not needing something like that
(so far), this idealization will work only with rectangles forms.


==== Element Type ====

Dynamic; Static; Static that allows collision (a cactus, for example, that will harm anyone that
collide with it).


==== Rectangle Type ====

This type is merely a structure that holds a matrix positioning and the size of the rectangle. These
attributes are listed bellow:

- X - Horizontal position of the rectangle in the map;
- Y - Vertical position of the rectangle in the map;
- Height - The height of the rectangle;
- Width -  The width of the rectangle.
- Collision Callback - This is the function that defines what happens when the elements collide wich
each other. Could be defined also by vertice, edge or a composition of these and variants;
- Collision Type - The kind of collision that another element will suffer if collide with this
element's rectangle.


With the rectangle attributes and the element Offset, we can define 4 vertices that will be used to
find the collision area that the element is in. Here is how we can find the vertices of a rectangle:

: #1 - (X + Offset), (Y + Offset);
: #2 - (X + Offset + Width), (Y + Offset);
: #3 - (X + Offset), (Y + Offset + Height);
: #4 - (X + Offset + Width), (Y + Offset + Height).

Illustration:

[Imagem de um retangulo e seus vertices marcados];


==== Collision Type ====


=== Collision Area ===

The Collision Area is the smallest surface of a map that collision elements can be and can collide
with each other. This type have the following attributes:

- Rectangle Type - That defines the area surface size;
- Collision Elements List - A list of references with Collision Elements that has an edge/vertice
inside the rectangle of a Collision Area. This information will be used to build up a list of what
elements need to be checked for collision (in the detection for dynamic types, only);
- Unique ID - That identifies the specific area within a list.


As written in the reference paper (**TODO:** append the paper), this type of element would be
sizeable according with the elements size that will be present in the game. In this way, there are
many ways to define the size rectangle attributes for this type, but, again, for simplicity sake we
will define  every Collision Area having the size of 100px by 100px (height and width).


==== Collision Area Functions ====

For this type is defined some functions to interact with his Collision Elements List. Just to give
an idea, they are listed and summarized bellow:

- Insert Element - Allows to insert a Collision Element reference into the list. Will be explained
in the next sections how this data is used;
- Delete Element- Delete a Collision Element from the list;
- Dump Elements - Clean the list of all referecens (can't think now where this can be used, but
"feel" that will be useful, hehe **TODO:** remove if no use situation is found);
- Check Collision - Something related to check if there is more than one element in the area,
meaning that they could had collided and need to be verified; (**TODO:** this really must be here?)
- Apply Collision - (or a better name) Verify if two elements really had collided and take the
necessary actions (call the callback and stuff); (**TODO:** this really must be here?).


=== Collision Domain ===

This is the big guy and the type that the user will interact with. A Collision Domain can be seen as
a grid of Collision Areas that overlap the game map. To be really accurate, a Collision Domain build
and maintain a list with Collision Areas enough to fill all the map size. The attributes of this
type are listed bellow:

- Collision Area List - A list of Collision Areas with N members defined from the map width and
weight. The user can see as a grid, but internally there is no need to maintain the collision areas
like that. Therefore, there is nothing special with it and the list members are indexed linearly
(**TODO:** this description make sense?);


==== Collision Domain Functions ====

The basic functions for a Collision Domain type is:

- Build Collision Area List - This must function must be called once at the creation of the
Collision Domain. It will receive the map size and create the Collision Area List;
- Add Collision Element - This function will find out what areas the element is contained and update
them with the element reference (through the Insert Element function from Collision Area type);
- Remove Collision Element - The inverse of the past function. But, it will consult the element to
find out what Collision Areas need to be cleaned from his reference (maybe this is just a
performance issue, multual references; every time we want to know we could verify what is the area
the element is);

== Collision Detection Scheme ==

After the Collision types presentation we can have a big picture of their interaction:

[**TODO:** Grid of a collision domain containing collision areas and collision elements]

So, where to start? For introduction, we can think about...

- Creating a Collision Domain and initialize it with the map size. Let's take as example a map of
500x500 pixels;
- Calling the function "Build Collision Area List" will create 25 Collision Areas numbered from 0 to
24. So far, the Collision Domain is ready to go;
- Then, we create two game elements that extends the base class "Collision Element". Right after, we
call the Collision Domain function to add these elements inside the Collision Areas. This is made by
iterating over the element rectangles and calculating the position of each vertice of each
rectangle, and then, inserting the element reference in his related Collision Areas (and giving the
reference of each area to the Collision Element);
- We can't forget that these elements have an Offset that is always used within the calcultations.
Let's assume that both elements have only one rectangle with the same size, but different offsets.


To keep going and start to talk about processing, we now will enter in more specific sections.

=== What Defines a Collision? ===
**TODO**


=== Collision Between MovingxStanding elements ===

If we had two standing elements, there would be no need for collision detection, then, for the
following explanation, we can give for one of the past created game elements the dynamic type, and
for the another, the static type.

Static type mean that the element, mostly, will not move, nevertheless it can do it*****. However,
would be inefficient if we keep checking collision between elements that can't move and almost
certainly will not move by another means. For this reason, we can keep the static type in a
different Collision Domain, that we will call "Static Collision Domain". Since we named a Collision
Domain for that specific type, we can define a domain for the other type "Dynamic Collision Domain"
(i'm full of obvious names =D), and dynamic types will go in there.

Ok, and again, there is no real need to keep checking collision between static elements, but the
need exist for dynamic against static types. And here is how it can be done:

- If a dynamic element wants to move anywere, it needs to find out if the path is blocked or
free to go. This verification must be done first for the static elements, and then for the dynamic
elements. For checking against static elements, the element will "ask" for the static domain if the
next step he want to make, for the given direction, is possible. Getting a positive answer, the
element can change his offset (that also, needless to say, will impact in the collision domain).


[*****] For almost all cases, if the element don't move, or can't move, it is an unanimated element,
and could be moved by another dynamic element. **TODO:** why this is important? because of the
different collision domains that will be made up.


=== Collision Between Moving elements ===

The collision detection between dynamic elements is a bit more complicated than collision detection
for static elements. In this new case, we wait for the elements to collide, so we can take the
corresponding action (tell the elements by callback). The bigger problem is that we need to know
that the element has collided right after it happened. Or else, the element can go away and nothing
was made. For example, if the main character of a game touch a pool of lava. If the collision
detection frequency is to low, the player can go through the lava, get off and the game system was
not fast enough to process this (the player escape unharmed). **TODO: keep that??**Another example
is if two elements starts to cross each other.

==== Collision Detection ====

So, we started to talk about frequency of collision detection without introduce the detection
mechanism. When was told about waiting for two elements to collide, it was the start of the idea.
The flow of a dynamic element movement would be:

- Verify for static collision;
- If the way is free to go, move to the desired direction.

Suppose that there is another dynamic element in the direction that the first was moved. We will
have a collision. What happens next? At this point, we need to have a entity responsible to find out
that these elements had collided and call the corresponding elements callbacks.

==== Collision Detection Frequency ====

As you can imagine, the collision detection frequency is the interval time between the collision
detection will act. If the interval is too long (a short frequency), the collision detection will be
inefficient (as seen later). If the collision detection run every moment, the overhead would be
unacceptable. So what? I believe (yeah, guessing) that the collision frequency should be related to
the screen updating frequency, that is related to the game elements movement frequency (or velocity
of thinking and acting).


==== Element Type ====

Dynamic; Static; Static that allows collision (a cactus, for example, that will harm anyone that
collide with it).

= Implementation =

Any Collision Element has to be inside a Collision Area, that by his own is contained in a Collision
Domain.


